---
title: "Accelerating design of multi-shell upconverting nanoparticles through Bayesian optimization"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-08-16-ACS
venue: "ACS Fall 2023"
date: 2023-08-16
location: "San Francisco, CA"
---

https://acs.digitellinc.com/p/s/accelerating-design-of-multi-shell-upconverting-nanoparticles-through-bayesian-optimization-578367.
Abstract:
Applications of photon upconverting nanoparticles (UCNPs) in biomedical imaging and solar energy conversion demand efficient and tunable emissions upon near-infrared excitation. Rational engineering of multishell structures of UCNPs can enable different emission properties. However, due to the many degrees of freedom in multi-shell heterostructures and the complexity of their photophysical networks, pure combinatorial screening of UCNPs for desired emission properties is challenging and time-consuming. Machine learning offers a promising method to accelerate the design and synthesis of UCNPs. In this work, we demonstrate the use of Bayesian optimization (BO) to optimize the multishell structures of UCNPs, leveraging an automated workflow that can tune UCNP nanostructures for user-defined applications using a small dataset to initialize the optimization. We use kinetic Monte Carlo to simulate the emission spectra of candidate UCNP structures recommended by the BO workflow over iterative cycles. We apply this workflow to design a Yb3+/Er3+ -doped UCNP with a target of strong upconverted emission. UCNP nanostructures optimized with this BO workflow achieve order-of-magnitude more intense emission compared to initial structures within 20 iterations, demonstrating significantly accelerated design of UCNPs with optimized optical properties. This BO workflow can be expanded to structures with higher compositional and structural complexity, accelerating the discovery of novel UCNPs while domain-specific knowledge is still being developed
